How many Companies visited the campus during Campus Placements?
Ans :  More than 300 companies visit C-DAC campus all over the country in each Campus Placement
                    Programme.



What is the help extended to the students for placements?
Ans :  Placement support is provided to the students for all the courses through centralized
                    National level Common Campus Placement Programme (CCPP). The CCPP is spread over
                    a month, wherein students from all courses across India participate. We try to attract
                    maximum companies to the campus to provide job opportunities to the students. While
                    the entire process is governed by the student’s ability and performance, as well
                    as the requirements and norms of the IT Industry, C-DAC
                    
                    catalyze the process and assist the students in their placements.



When does the Placement Activity begin?
Ans :  After all the modules of course are over, the Placement Week commences. Every year,
                    the placement activity starts tentatively in the first/second week of February and
                    August.



Which are the Companies that regularly visit for Campus Recruitment?
Ans :  Kindly refer our Prominent Recruiters’ list.



What is the range of salary offered by companies for a fresher?
Ans :  Salary may range from Rs 1,80,000 to Rs 8,00,000 per annum, with an average salary
                    of Rs 3-4 lakh per annum.



Which are the latest technologies or platform the companies have requirement in?
Ans :  VB, Oracle, Java, UNIX, .Net , Iphone, Android, Cloud Computing,J2ME, RTOS, Linux,
                    FPGA, Board Design, Information Security,Embedded Technologies ,Big Data etc.



Do all the organizations visiting campus have criteria for placement?
Ans :  Not all the organizations have criteria. Companies shortlist a candidate on various
                    parameters, including the scores in C-DAC course.



Will my higher secondary or graduation scores affect my chance in placement?
Ans :  Yes, to a certain extent. Students having good scores in academics and C-DAC course,
                    stand a better chance to get shortlisted for top companies.



