I have passed XIIth standard exam from outside Maharashtra /
                      CBSE Board. Will I require migration, nationality and eligibility certificates? 
Ans :  Yes



Which original documents are required for submission to the college at the time of reporting to admission of First Year B.E.?
Ans :  The following original documents are required for submission at the time of reporting to admission to First Year B.E.



Where do I have to apply for eligibility certificate?
Ans :  
 Entrance Examination Marksheet SEEE/AIEEE
 10+2 XII Std. Marksheet (HSSC)
 10th Std. Marksheet (SSC)
 S.S.C. Passing Board Certificate
 HSSC Passing Board Certificate 
 School/College Leaving Certificate 
 Nationality Certificate
Gap Certificate (if Gap after XII Std.)
 Migration Certificate (required for other than Maharashtra State Secondary Board)
 Eligibility Certificate (other than Maharashtra State Secondary Board) 
 For BC category students- 
                        a.	Caste Certificate - SC & ST Category
                        b.	Caste Validity Certificate - SC & ST Category
                        c.	Caste Certificate             }
                        d.	Caste Validity Certificate} NT1, NT2, NT3, SBC
                        e.	Non Creamy Layer Certificate} OBC Category, NT1, NT2, NT3, VJ, SBC
Passport Size Photographs – 5 Nos.




I have passed XIIth from Maharashtra Board.  Will I require nationality certificate?
Ans :  In RTM Nagpur University, LIT Campus, Amravati Road, Nagpur. (Enrolment & Enquiry Section)



When will I get my original certificates back?
Ans :  Yes, if the transfer certificate from the school last attended does not contain nationality statement. Eligibility and migration certificates are not required.



How many passing heads do I have to clear so as to be eligible to take admission in Third Semester?
Ans :  Normally after one academic year.  Original certificates are returned after verification by University & other competent authorities which confirm eligibility.



What are ATKT rules for Vth & VIIth semesters for admission?
Ans :  Eligibility criteria are as per ATKT rules of RTM Nagpur University. Accordingly for II Year (III Sem) maximum uncleared 4 passing heads are permitted.  Out of total 15 heads of passing (theory & practicals taken together should clear minimum 11 heads.



When and from where will I get the railway concession form?
Ans :  For III Year (V Sem) Ist Year should be passed & IIIrd & IV Sem. taken together should not have more than 4 passing heads uncleared. For Final Year (VII/VIII Sem) I Year and III & IV Semesters passed, V  & VI taken together max. 4 passing heads back. 



Where should I inform the change in my residential address?
Ans :  From college office. It is issued about 15 days prior to winter & summer vacations for visiting native place only (hometown).



Where can I purchase college practical, journal and other stationary?
Ans :  In the college office and to your class teacher through an application along with all details including contact telephone nos, e-mail ID and PIN Code.



Is it compulsory for every parent to attend parent teacher meet?
Ans :   Contact Office.



I wish to change my branch after first year.  What is the procedure?
Ans :  No.  However, attendance is highly desirable for effective interaction and better communication.



Where do I have to deposit the original certificates, which were not submitted at the time of my admission?
Ans :  You need to apply in writing for the branch you are interested in to the Office.  Depending upon the number of vacancies, seats are filled on the basis of marks secured in Ist Year B.E.



When do I fill in the university exam form? Who can attest it?
Ans :  In the student’s section of college office. 



Where should I submit my medical certificate, say for consideration of attendance?
Ans :  The College shall display notices regarding this on main notice board at appropriate time.  You are advised to read notices regularly and remain alert to notified schedules.  Attestation can be taken from any teacher.



Can I ask my subject related difficulties to a teacher who is not teaching my class?
Ans :  To your class teacher.



Are Internet facilities at CCC available to students?
Ans :  Definitely, yes. 



From where can we get bonafide and other type of certificates?
Ans :  Yes, but only when you have free period or in recess hours or directed so by your teachers.



What are the consequences if I miss my class tests or sessionals?
Ans :  Only regular students can get bonafide certificate, vacation certificate, fee estimate certificate etc. on submission of application to Asstt.Registrar (Acad.) in college office.



I wish to enroll as member of ISTE.  Whom should I contact and what is the membership fee?
Ans :  You will get zero marks in that particular examination. Your HOD/ Class teacher may consider re-test in genuine cases, if pre informed and applied in writing with supporting documents. 



Can I get the Govt. scholarship? 
Ans :  Chapter of ISTE is to be formed very soon.  Admission fee is Rs.20/- and Rs.30/- annual fee.



Can I fill all the free ship / scholarship forms? 
Ans :  You are eligible for various scholarships only if your admission has been made through CAP. Students admitted under management quota cannot avail this benefit.



What type of monetary benefits can I get during the course of study?
Ans :  No. You can avail of only one kind of concession or scholarship at a time.  For this, you have to fill the specified form within the stipulated period mentioned in the notice displayed by the office section. 



May I know the types of concessions available?
Ans :  Out of those which are available under Govt of Maharashtra scholarship and fee concession for individual categories.



What is the upper limit on Income for availing the above benefit?
Ans :  
 Scholarship- for category students  as per notification of Govt. of Maharashtra.
 Freeship- For category students 
 E.B.C – For open category students

                      Only prescribed application forms must be used and necessary certificates enclosed.
                      
                    



FOR SCHOLARSHIP
Ans :  The monetary limit for availing the scholarship and free ship is as under:



Is there any concession available to students belonging to open category?
Ans :  

Category
Annual Income Amount (Rs)


FOR SCHOLARSHIP


S. C
Below 1,00,000/-


N.T
Below 1,00,000/-


S.B.C
Below 1,00,000/-


O.B.C
Below 1,00,000/-


S.T
Below 1,00,000/-


FOR FREESHIP 


S. C
No income limit 


N.T
Below 3,50,000/-


S.B.C
Below 3,50,000/-


O.B.C
Below 4,00,000/-


S.T
No income limit 





From where can I get the concession form?
Ans :  Category



Where shall I have to submit these forms ? What documents do have I to attach?
Ans :  Annual Income Amount (Rs)



Application for submitting freeship, which documents do, I have to  attach?
Ans :  S. C



For submitting EBC application which documents  are required?  
Ans :  Below 1,00,000/-



What next after submitting the form?
Ans :  N.T



When shall I receive the scholarship amount ?
Ans :  Below 1,00,000/-



Is there renewal procedure for scholarship and freeship.
Ans :  S.B.C



Which documents are required for renewal?
Ans :  Below 1,00,000/-



Will I get benefit in attendance for the period of my absence on medical  ground?
Ans :  O.B.C



When will I get BT card (Borrower’s Ticket) from library?
Ans :  Below 1,00,000/-



What have I to do to borrow books from the library?
Ans :  S.T



May I know how to obtain my Library Card?
Ans :  Below 1,00,000/-



Which books do I have to refer for first year?
Ans :  FOR FREESHIP 



How many books will be issued to me? What is the procedure and rule for  issuance of book?
Ans :  S. C



What other library facilities are available for students?
Ans :  No income limit 



How can I utilize services of E-resources section and reference section?
Ans :  N.T



How can I get the books issued?
Ans :  Below 3,50,000/-



Whether issue time period is extended at the time of examination?
Ans :  S.B.C



What is the opening and closing time of library?
Ans :  Below 3,50,000/-



How can we use the OPAQ system?
Ans :  O.B.C



Can we give requisition for extra copies or new books in the library? 
Ans :  Below 4,00,000/-



What type of facility can we avail from periodical section of the  Library?
Ans :  S.T



